>> Scott Moss: But now we're
gonna talk about Operation Names.
So if you've done the GraphQL stuff
on the server, you might have got
to the point where you were writing Querys
in playground and things like that.
But the way you might have done that
were just like the short hand method of
writing Querys and writing Mutations.
What we're gonna do is we're going to
use the full way, the full approach
of writing Querys and Mutations, starting
with something called Operation names.
So Operation names are basically, unique
names for your client side Querys and
Mutations operations.
What does that basically mean?
So if you could think about it like this,
if you create a function in JavaScript and
you just had a variable.
But you didn't actually
name that function,
that function is technically anonymous
even though the variable has a name.
That's basically what
you're doing in GraphQL.
So to translate that,
this query right here for
characters, it doesn't have a name.
I mean the query is called characters, but
the option itself doesn't have a name,
it's anonymous.
So we could actually give
this operation a name
by using the operation
name syntax in GraphQL.
And the way we can do that is,
so we get rid of this query.
The first thing we want to do is,
we want to type the name of
the operation we want to do.
In this case,
we're going to type the word query.
Query means hey,
we actually want to execute a query,
because there's different
types of operations.
We have mutations, we have subscriptions.
We're interested in executing a query, and
as a refresher, queries are responsible
for retrieving data from a GraphQL API.
So in this case, we wanna retrieve
some Rick and Morty data, so
we're gonna issue a query.
And then,
we can just give it an operation name.
And the operation name is pretty much,
you can name it whatever you want.
The restrictions on it is that you
can't have any spaces or dashes,
anything like that.
But you can kinda name
it whatever you want.
The convention is most people just
camel case or pascal case this.
So let's call this a,
we'll call this all characters.
Like that, all characters.
That's the operation name.
And then, followed by that,
you might have an optional arguments here.
We're not going to use
arguments right now.
Instead, we're just going to hit enter and
we'll use these brackets.
So, now that we have our
operation named all characters,
now we can actually run our query.
And the query that I want to run,
if I go look at the schema.
Here's all the queries
that's possible on this API.
So I'm going to run the characters
query which takes in
optional arguments of a page.
I'm guessing for pagination and to filter
if I want to filter out a character.
So I'm not going to pass any
of those arguments right now.
And I'm just going to execute
the query called character, like this.
So once I run character,
I can now go ahead and ask for
some fields on the character.
What fields do I have?
Well, if I go click on a character,
>> Scott Moss: Here,
you can see that characters have an info.
Well, I'm sorry this thing returned
type characters which has info and
then results.
And then, you have for results an array
of characters which is an ID of names and
stuff like that.
So what I want to do is I want to go
ahead and get the results, or I'm
sorry, get the ID like this so if I hit
enter, run this, I got a null for that.
So, let's try a name and see what
happens when we use that Name is null.
Maybe this API is just
not feeling it right now.
I'm sorry, I wrote in character.
I need characters, there we go.
Then, we get the results.
>> Scott Moss: And now,
we can do something like gimme the name,
gimme the episode.
Our episode is an object type,
let's just do name.
And now we get characters, results, an
array, and we get the name Rick and Morty.
So, this is an operation name.
So, a couple of things to note here
is you note that the tab up top
reflected the name of the operation.
And that's kind of the point
of a operation name.
Operation names are used for
client side caching, which we'll get into.
And indexing inside of tools
like GraphQL playground,
which is what I just showed you.
So, having the operation name is a way
that tools like GraphQL playground and
Graphical can reference different
operations that you're trying to run.
So keeping those names unique
Is a really good practice.
And in fact,
when we get to client side caching and
stuff like that,
you definitely want to keep them unique.
Otherwise, you will have conflicts
with like state and things like that.
So, make sure you have those
operation names unique.
So, naming your functions just like in
JavaScript versus keeping them anonymous.